# Dating Mining Connect-4
Data mining is a field of computer science covering a range of topics, from artificial intelligence to machine learning to statistical analysis. For this project, we wrote a small program to extract features out of Connect-4 game states for use in decision trees and neural networks, which were generated with the help of [Weka 3](http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/weka/). For more on our findings, see [this report](report/REPORT.md) detailing the features we used and how they performed when used in both a decision tree and a neural network. If you're just interested on how you can run this program yourself or how to use its output in Weka, keep on reading!

## Prerequisites

This program runs on the [NumPy](http://www.numpy.org) library, which can be installed by `cd`-ing into the source directory and running:

``` bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Running The Program

Running the program is extremely simple, as it follows the basic syntax:

``` bash
python main.py <input_filename> <output_filename>
```

where `<input_filename>` is a CSV (comma-separated values) file containing the input data (see trainDataSet.csv to get an idea of what it should look like), and `<output_filename>` is the filename of the CSV that will be generated by the program. The output file should look identical to the input file, with the added addition of new feature columns on its right-hand side.

## Opening In Weka
To open the generated CSV in Weka, simply startup Weka, click on "Explorer", then click "Open File". In the extension dropdown of the open dialog box, select "CSV data files (\*.csv)", then navigate to the location of the generated file. Lastly, click "Choose". Once the file is loaded, you can uncheck the attributes you don't want Weka to use. You should, in most cases, only wish to check all boxes from "Winner" on. Everything prior to "Winner" is board data.
